# QW0005: Seal concrete classes unless designed for inheritance

> There are three reasons why a sealed class is better than an unsealed class:
> 
> ### Versioning
> When a class is originally sealed, it can change to unsealed in the future
> without breaking compatibility. However, once a class is unsealed, you can
> never change it to sealed in the future as this would break all derived
> classes. In addition, if the unsealed class defines any unsealed virtual
> methods, ordering of the virtual method calls must be maintained with new
> versions or there is the potential of breaking derived types in the future.
>
> ### Performance
> As discussed in the previous section, calling a virtual method doesn’t
> perform as well as calling a nonvirtual method because the CLR must look up
> the type of the object at runtime in order to determine which type defines
> the method to call. However, if the JIT compiler sees a call to a virtual
> method using a sealed type, the JIT compiler can produce more efficient code
> by calling the method nonvirtually. It can do this because it knows there
> can’t possibly be a derived class if the class is sealed.
>
> ### Security and predictability
> A class must protect its own state and not allow itself to ever become
> corrupted. When a class is unsealed, a derived class can access and
> manipulate the base class’s state if any data fields or methods that
> internally manipulate fields are accessible and not private. In addition, a
> virtual method can be overridden by a derived class, and the derived class
> can decide whether to call the base class’s implementation. By making a
> method, property, or event virtual, the base class is giving up some control
> over its behavior and its state. Unless carefully thought out, this can cause
> the object to behave unpredictably, and it opens up potential security holes.

© Jeffrey Richter

## Non-compliant
``` C#
public class Noncompliant
{
}
```

## Compliant
``` C#
public class Compliant
{
    protected object Method() { } // any protected member
}

public class Compliant
{
    public virtual object Method() { } // any virtual member
}

[Inheritable] // Name convention based way to decorate class
public class Compliant
{
}
```
